After creating the next iteration of the narrative, a round of user testing with five different participants was conducted. During this testing phase, each participant went through a think-aloud protocol or AB Testing accompanied with a quick semi-structured interview. User testing were done to ensure the story was presented and explained in a compelling and effective manner. There was a secondary testing which was done in isolation which were for usability testing on each interactive component. These included: the comparative graphs for country and it’s GDP and the renewables pie graph that analysed the countries’ diversification of sources of energy.

The usability testing covering the interactive graph of GDP and country emissions was designed to test the interactive select dropdown. This involved three “AB testing” showing the users two different interactions. During this test it was noted that in the narrative it compares different countries with their GDP growth however this select dropdown only allowed one country to be viewed at a time. Using HTML’s checkbox input to allow the users to select and compare multiple different countries on the same plot was chosen to be more effective in communicating this relationship. This was more effective in showing the comparisons between different countries and how they slowly curbed their carbon emissions, but it did not affect their GDP as a country.

The second round of testing involved the pie chart comparing a countries’ energy portfolio from 2000 and 2020. This involved the two different types of interactions one being comparing two pie graphs side by side and the other using interactive elements to scrub through the years and select the country. Like the previous round we wanted to test the usability and relation to the narrative. Users noted that seeing two identical pie graphs, but minimal changes were not as effective the communicate this positive change. Having a single graph exploring one country’s portfolio over the years through a slider input was proven to be more effective both in relating to the narrative but also the compelling nature of seeing the change slowly year by year.

The third stage of testing reflects on the entire narrative, and this is when users went through the think aloud protocol as they explored the website and the different interactive elements. There were several notable feedbacks brought up specially to do with colours and aesthetics. In the “building empathy” section there were some very powerful quotes however they were not properly highlighted leading them to be overshadowed by the images. To solve this the colours on the quotes and headers were changed to be more impactful on the audience. There with were notable remarks on the interactive elements working very well with the narrative to open ways for the users to explore freely without being tied to a fixed structure. This opens the story for interpretation and allows user’s imagination to explore the story itself. There were also many remarks on the highly condensed text making it overwhelming to read and navigate. To resolve this a few animations and graphics were added to explain the concepts such as global warming and how cities and countries are changing for a better future. There are still many possible implementations that could improve the overall usability of this website, things such as graph animations would make it more compelling to the users to see the carbon emissions increase over the years.
