The Story

During the research phase of A2 I found it alarming the number of articles showing how the world is doomed due to climate change and global warming, almost as if there is no hope in this situation. However, through future research it’s clear that many countries and corporations have changed their ways and although there are still many destructive corporations there are a few implementations that works to fight climate change. This is what I wanted to explore in this story and bring hope back to the people that we as individuals can make a difference. From A2’s feedback it was noted that the story felt a bit long with too many moving parts. To further enhance the compelling nature of the story the GDP bar graph was cut out from the final design. It was also noted that the building empathy part of the narrative structure should explain what climate change as that is would allow users to further empathise with what is happening around the world.

Design Decisions
Throughout the design of this website there were specifically designed colour schemes in the text and content. I wanted to keep the content formal and serious yet playful with the graphics and animation. Serious and alarming colours were used initially such as deep red and orange and as the story progresses it moves towards warmer colours such as light orange and green. This shows the evolution of the story and sets the story’s mood. Through the user testing conducted having a mix of text and graphics is essential is to build a compelling and educational narrative experience.  The initial landing page is built to build empathy in the users, in this way the large full screen images of different disasters made worse by climate change is an effective way of getting users to start thinking. This changed the frame of focusing entirely of report style into a more interactive animated experience. The use of an in-built JavaScript animation player allows the users to learn visually which is often more effective than explaining through text. The next graph showing the global emissions is designed to alarm the users in the dangerous levels of carbon emissions the world is producing and the trend it is following hence the orange background is used. The cards section was used to effectively show the different main contributions to climate change and it’s something that all humans effectively use to make their lives easier. This card layout easily shows the different contributions together in a row. This is followed by the graph using checkboxes to explore the trends of carbon emissions and the countries GDP. This is effective in showing that although countries are stopping their heavy emissions and the exponential trends, we have been seeing are slowing their GDP is not affected which means there is no correlation between the country’s wealth and their carbon emissions. The next section explores the different ways that the world is fighting against climate change through innovative solutions such as renewable energy, electric vehicles and transportation and alternative meats. The cards show a repeated example of the destruction caused by old ways of thinking and how they changed through these technologies with the bottom of the card images. The next graph shows the energy portfolio through a select dropdown and a slider. We wanted to ensure that users have the freedom to explore the data on their own and this allows just that. The story is capped off with a depiction of the future in a graphical animation showing the cars turning from petrol to electric and houses and renewable sources of energy replacing old fashion petrol chemical industries.